---
title: v0.0.1
date: 2017-06-19 17:48:29
tags:
---

This is a work in progress. In the near future I will be iterating over a number of typographic and design choices on this blog in order to test in a concrete way various systems of type, layout and structure. <!-- more --> The end goal is a site that is, first and foremost, a pleasure to read. My experiences reading on screens over the past decade and a half has been, to put it bluntly, bad.

### A starting point  
In any project, finding a suitable beginning can be the most difficult part of the entire process. In this case, I've applied the the motto, "You have to start somewhere, might as well start here." Here, in this case, is publishing this unfinished draft of this website.  

This initial version uses [Sassline](https://sassline.com/) for typesetting and [Prism.js](http://prismjs.com) for code blocks and syntax highlighting. I chose Sassline because typesetting on the web is a difficult task, especially for someone who does not have a background in typography or design. When you throw responsive design into the mix, it becomes a project so large and fussy that I want to throw my hands in the air and walk away.

After experimenting with a number of boilerplates and libraries, I settled on Sassline because it turned out to be the only tool that could actually accomplish everything I wanted to do on this site. I'll admit, I was extremely picky about my typographical choices, and I likely went beyond the point of diminishing returns, but Sassline was there every step of the way helping me make informed typographic choices. I'll write a full post in the future about setting up Sassline from scratch.

Prism.js is just about the opposite of Sassline. While Sassline has an involved set-up process, Prism just works. Add it to your project and there it is: Intelligent syntax highlighting. I should mention that since I am publishing on Hexo, I used a Hexo plugin written to integrate Prism.js into your Hexo blog or website. That plugin can be found [here](https://github.com/ele828/hexo-prism-plugin).

I chose these two tools for a one simple reason: readability. Web typography (generally) has a long way to go before it really comes into its own, but many designers and developers have created tools that make it easier to create truly readable websites. And while Sassline takes care of creating readable (and, in my opinion, very pleasant) body copy, reading code is a different activity. Because I want to use this space to write mostly about learning and using Javascript, I felt that syntax highlighting was necessary to give the reader the most complete experience.

### In lieu of a conclusion
This is going to change a lot over the next few months. I'll try to write about the various choices I'm making as I make them. After all, this is a learning process for me, and I hope that my foibles as a beginner can be helpful to someone else. At least I'll know what not to do again in the future.
